It might look like I'm using my Jedi
powers to control a droid, but in
reality, I'm at CERN in Switzerland, and
I'm in their robotics lab. This is where
they build the robots to help them with
their high energy experiments. This is a
mockup of the beam line, and this is
used to test out their robots. The beam
line's where they fire high energy
particles at each other underground. And
this isn't a safe environment for humans
because of radiation. So, instead, we
can send in robots, which we can control
remotely, which was what I was doing
here. This robot's got wheels which lets
it move in every direction, even
sideways like a crab. So, these can be
controlled with a keyboard or with a
game pad or even through this augmented
reality display. This robot has a
spinning liar scanner that builds a 3D
model of the room it's in, and it can
fit through small holes. And this one
runs on a rail and can reach all around
the beam line. It's got a radiation
detector which monitors radiation levels
after the beam is turned off to see when
it's safe for humans to come back into
the tunnels. If you want to find out
more, check out my map of particle
physics video and poster on